Apple 1st Round (EOY : 5yrs , DATE :28/11/2025)
-----------------------------------------------
1.Can you introduce yourself and give a brief overview of your professional background?
2.What type of tasks have you automated using CI/CD,and whatis your overall approach to designing a CI/CD pipeline?
3.How do you plan and perform EKS cluster upgrades across multiple enviornments?
4.Can you write a Terraform script to create an S3 bucket and a Lambda function that copies a ZIP file from that bucket?
5.If you have one AWS account and need to create two S3 buckets using Terraform modules,how would you structure it?
6.What is Terraform drift,and what does terraform plan do?How do you handle drift when it is detected?
7.Can you write a bash script that clones a repository , searches for the infra folder,zips the config and YAML files,and uploads them to S3?
8.What is the difference between *and & in Bash command execution?
9.Can you write a Dockerfile for a Node.js application?
10.You are using multi-stage Docker builds why are you using that approach?What benefits does it provide?
11.What are the output artifacts files generated when building java and Node.js applications?
12.What was your role in your previous organization were you leading a team or working as an individual contributor?


Deloitte 1st Round :
CI/CD - Jenkins :
1.How do you check logs and errors in a jenkins build?
2.How do you troubleshoot when Jenkins nodes or agents fail?
3.How do you manage 100 microservices efficiently in Jenkins pipelines?
4.How do you handle or avoid Jenkins bottlenecks during heavy workloads?
5.What is a declarative pipeline in Jenkins?
6.What is scripted pipeline in Jenkins?
7.How do you handle secrets in Jenkins?
8.How do you achieve zero downtime in CI/CD?
Kubernetes:
9.How do you troubleshoot IP conflicts in a Kubernetes cluster?
10.During a rolling update in Kubernetes,what happens in the backend?
11.What are readiness and liveness probes?
AWS/S3 :
12.How do you migrate data in S3?(S3 -> S3 migration)
Terraform:
13.What do you do when the Terraform state file gets corrupted?
14.If your application jas heavy load,how do you scale Jenkins?Do you use separate Jenkins agents?

1.How do you implement monitoring for CI/CD pipelines?
2.What metrics do you typically monitor in a CI/CD system,and how do you alert on failures?
3.What is your understanding of Site Reliability Engineering(SRE)?
4.How is SRE different from DevOps in terms if responsibilities,principles, and focus areas?
5.If three services have already consumed 95% of their error budget and only 5% remains

Deloitte 3rd Round :
1)Can you please brief me about your resume
2)why do we need blue green deployment?What problem it solves?
3)How can you ensure a pipeline is secure(For code as well as cicd)?
4)How can you ensure traffic is forwarded securely inside VPC?
5)When can you join ? And why do you want to join Deloitte?
6)What is the current and expected CTC?

Daimler Truck Technical Interview Questions:
1)What do you understand about TLS handshake?
2)Can you draw me an architectural diagram of your application which you worked in your previous organization and explain me in detail
3)What is forward and reverse proxy ?
4)What do you do when the connection between front end container and back end container is not stable.meaning it disables every time how do you provide a long term solution to this?
5)How the traffic flows from browser to application hosted on eks?
6)How is an API Gateway and why do we use it?
7)Can you draw me a diagram of branching strategy that your Org followed and explain me?
8)Can you explain the troubleshooting you have done in your organization in details?

Curriculum Associates (YOE:5-6yr)
---------------------------------
1)Listout your greatest achievement and projects in the last 6 months?
2)Docker: 
a)How to optimize the Docker file?
b)Difference between ADD and COPY?

EC2:
1)A simple web application, and it's still in the US state,so you'are using maybe tomcat or apache server to host your application,which is running on the EC2.You have got a page saying this application is down.We are not able to access the application.How do we investigate?Can you just walk me through?

VPC and Networking:
When to use ALB vs NLB?
If there are 15 VPC how to establish communications?
What is the difference between NACL and SEcurity Groups?
Can you add security group to private subnet?
Terraform:
Write a terraform script to create an EC2 instance?
Write a terraform script to add Security Group to VPC and EC2 instance?


Accenture interview Questions:
------------------------------
1)What is VPC? 
2)How oes the product URL work in an e-commerce website?
3)How oes the request route to a specific microservice , like/clothes?
4)How many worker nodes do you use and how do you manage scaling?
5)How do deployments happen in EKS and how do you manage your clusters and microservices?
6)How does Jenkins authenticate to AS when running Terraform?
7)What are Terraform provisioners ad when do we use them?
8)What are Terraform meta-arguments?
9)What are dynamic blocks in Terraform?
10)What are different kubernetes service types?
11)How do you configure Kubernetes health checks for Pods?
12)What is the difference between ADD and COPY in Docker?
13)When do you use CMD vs ENTRYPOINT in Docker?
14)How do you explain your entire e-commerce project setup?
15)What server sizes and instance types are used in your project?
16)Why do we need autoscaling for both nodes and pods?
17)How do you handle Helm charts?

Seclore 2nd round Interview:
1)Python program to check a prime no
2)Shell script to appnd some data into existing file?
3)How can we run ansible playbook in background?
4)Write Terraform code to provision an EC2 instance?
5)Readiness/Liveness probe?
6)HPA/VPA.Which is prefered and why? Use case?
7)Howdo you you ensure only one particular pod runs on one node
8)Taints and Tolerations
9)Static pod in Kubernetes.
10)Set resource constraints at namespace level
11)Node scaling,ASG scaling
12)Swap memory in Linux
13)$? Meaning
14)chmod permissions
15)EBS,EFS,S3(Latency,cost,usecase)
16)VPC Peering and NAT Gateway
17)Lambda function running in public subnet.It should connect to S3 over private subnet
18)Serverless services provided by ASW and thir use case
19)Provisioners and heir use case
20)Workspaces and modules
21)How will you setup remote backndand state locking
22)Life ycle blocks
23)Data blocks in Terraform
24)User requirement is to divert traffic in umbai region onlyHow will you achieve ?
25)How will you list out all open ports?

JP Morgan 3rd Tech Discussion :
1)Can you brief introduce yourself and highlight your key experience in DevOps?
2)What type of issues have you handled through JIRA?Can you explain one major issue and one minor issue in detail includinh your approach and resolution?
3)If a pod with pod-affinity configured keeps crashing in production,how would you troubleshoot and bring it back online quickly while ensuring traffic is routed to it?
4)If data is flowing between multiple pods and you need to trace flow to identify where an issue is occuring,what approach or tools would you use?
5)How would you restore a Kubernetes cluster from an etcd backup?Do you know how etcd stores cluster metadata?
6)Can you explain the overall architecture of Kubernetes and the responsibilities of each component?
7)Can you collect logs and traces from a Java application?What tools or stack would you use to implement this?
8)Are you open to work in rotational shifts if required in this role?
9)How would you handle high-pressure situations?Can you share an example of stressful incident you managed and how you approached it?
10)How does Argo CD deploy manifests to different enviornments?Can you explain the setup you implemented?
11)If a production outage occurs,what would be your immadediate approach to toubleshoot and resolve the issue as quickly as possible?

